01 - Create a virtual machine in the portal (10 min)

In this walkthrough, we will create a virtual machine in the Azure portal, connect to the virtual machine, install the web server role and test.

Note: Take time during this walk-through to click and read the Informational icons.
Task 1: Create the virtual machine

    Sign-in to the Azure portal: https://portal.azure.com

    From the All services blade in the Portal Menu, search for and select Virtual machines, and then click +Create and choose +Azure Virtual machine from the drop down.

    On the Basics tab, fill in the following information (leave the defaults for everything else):
    Settings 	Values
    Subscription 	Use default supplied
    Resource group 	Create new resource group
    Virtual machine name 	myVM
    Region 	(US) East US
    Availability options 	No infrastructure redundancy options required
    Image 	Windows Server 2019 Datacenter - Gen2
    Size 	Standard D2s v3
    Administrator account username 	azureuser
    Administrator account password (type in carefully!) 	Pa$$w0rd1234
    Inbound port rules - 	**Allow select ports **
    Select inbound ports 	RDP (3389) and HTTP (80)

    Switch to the Networking tab to ensure HTTP (80) and RDP (3389) are selected in section Select inbound ports.

    Switch to the Management tab, and in its Monitoring section, select the following setting:
    Settings 	Values
    Boot diagnostics 	Disable

    Leave the remaining values on the defaults and then click the Review + create button at the bottom of the page.

    Once Validation is passed click the Create button. It can take anywhere from five to seven minutes to deploy the virtual machine.

    You will receive updates on the deployment page and via the Notifications area (the bell icon in the top menu bar).

Task 2: Connect to the virtual machine

In this task, we will connect to our new virtual machine using RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol).

    Click on bell icon from the upper blue toolbar, and select 'Go to resource' when your deployment has succeded.

    Note: You could also use the Go to resource link on the deployment page

    On the virtual machine Overview blade, click Connect button and choose RDP from the drop down.

    Screenshot of the virtual machine properties with the Connect button highlighted.

    Note: The following directions tell you how to connect to your VM from a Windows computer. On a Mac, you need an RDP client such as this Remote Desktop Client from the Mac App Store and on a Linux computer you can use an open source RDP client.

    On the Connect to virtual machine page, keep the default options to connect with the public IP address over port 3389 and click Download RDP File. A file will download on the bottom left of your screen.

    Open the downloaded RDP file (located on the bottom left of your lab machine) and click Connect when prompted.

    Screenshot of the virtual machine properties with the Connect button highlighted.

    In the Windows Security window, sign in using the Admin Credentials you used when creating your VM azureuser and the password Pa$$w0rd1234.

    You may receive a warning certificate during the sign-in process. Click Yes or to create the connection and connect to your deployed VM. You should connect successfully.

    Screenshot of the Certificate warning dialogue informing the user of an untrusted certificate, with the Yes button highlighted.

A new Virtual Machine (myVM) will launch inside your Lab. Close the Server Manager and dashboard windows that pop up (click "x" at top right). You should see the blue background of your virtual machine. Congratulations! You have deployed and connected to a Virtual Machine running Windows Server.
